---
layout: post
title:  "Super long Obama ipsum text for testing purposes"
date:   2021-06-02 23:36:23 +0200
categories: test features
thumbnail: "placeholder-alpha"
thumbnail-alt: "An overgrown building."
featured: true

published: false

---
My father was a foreign student, born and raised in a small village in Kenya. The man I met more than twenty years ago is a man who helped introduce me to my Christian faith, a man who spoke to me about our obligations to love one another; to care for the sick and lift up the poor. You make a big election about small things. But my personal story is not so unique. We cannot disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretense of liberalism.

Our Party has chosen a man to lead us who embodies the best this country has to offer. But for all those who scratched and clawed their way to get a piece of the American Dream, there were many who didn't make it - those who were ultimately defeated, in one way or another, by discrimination. Ironically, this quintessentially American - and yes, conservative - notion of self-help found frequent expression in Reverend Wright's sermons. And when I hear a woman talk about the difficulties of starting her own business, I think about my grandmother, who worked her way up from the secretarial pool to middle-management, despite years of being passed over for promotions because she was a woman. And it is my first duty as President to protect the American people.

His values - and his record - affirm what is best in us. And just as Lieutenant Kerry did not hesitate to risk his life to protect the men who served with him in Vietnam, President Kerry will not hesitate one moment to use our military might to keep America safe and secure. It got hijacked. A lack of economic opportunity among black men, and the shame and frustration that came from not being able to provide for one's family, contributed to the erosion of black families - a problem that welfare policies for many years may have worsened. And fault lines must be closed among Muslims as well, as the divisions between Sunni and Shia have led to tragic violence, particularly in Iraq. But we can only achieve it together.

My father was a foreign student, born and raised in a small village in Kenya. My faith teaches me that I can sit in church and pray all I want, but I won't be fulfilling God's will unless I go out and do the Lord's work. Washington's been talking about our oil addiction for the last thirty years, and John McCain has been there for twenty-six of them. I am a Christian, but my father came from a Kenyan family that includes generations of Muslims. The United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements. That does not lessen my commitment, however, to governments that reflect the will of the people.

But I also get the sense that there's a hunger that's deeper than that - a hunger that goes beyond any single cause or issue. On November 4th, we must stand up and say: "Eight is enough." And next week, we'll also hear about those occasions when he's broken with his party as evidence that he can deliver the change that we need. That won't keep America safe. And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of the United States to fight against negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear. But we should choose the right path, not just the easy path.

If you're working forty hours a week, you shouldn't be living in poverty. It should help us, not hurt us. These needs will be met only if we act boldly in the years ahead; and if we understand that the challenges we face are shared, and our failure to meet them will hurt us all. Over seven years ago, the United States pursued al Qaeda and the Taliban with broad international support.

Tonight is a particular honor for me because - let's face it - my presence on this stage is pretty unlikely. And yet words on a parchment would not be enough to deliver slaves from bondage, or provide men and women of every color and creed their full rights and obligations as citizens of the United States. At various stages in the campaign, some commentators have deemed me either "too black" or "not black enough." We saw racial tensions bubble to the surface during the week before the South Carolina primary. It's not because John McCain doesn't care. That is the responsibility we have to one another as human beings. Indeed, faith should bring us together.

But somehow, somewhere along the way, faith stopped being used to bring us together and started being used to drive us apart. But there's a story I want to share that takes place before Moses passed the mantle of leadership on to Joshua. On November 4th, we must stand up and say: "Eight is enough." And next week, we'll also hear about those occasions when he's broken with his party as evidence that he can deliver the change that we need. You have shown what history teaches us - that at defining moments like this one, the change we need doesn't come from Washington. And just as it devastates Palestinian families, the continuing humanitarian crisis in Gaza does not serve Israel's security; neither does the continuing lack of opportunity in the West Bank.

The people I meet - in small towns and big cities, in diners and office parks - they don't expect government to solve all their problems. They must be pursued - and they must be defeated. And it is my first duty as President to protect the American people. Today, America has a dual responsibility: to help Iraq forge a better future - and to leave Iraq to Iraqis. This bond is unbreakable. That is why I strongly reaffirmed America's commitment to seek a world in which no nations hold nuclear weapons.

They work hard and give back and keep going without complaint. In Washington, they call this the Ownership Society, but what it really means is - you're on your own. You understand that in this election, the greatest risk we can take is to try the same old politics with the same old players and expect a different result. The Holy Koran teaches that whoever kills an innocent, it is as if he has killed all mankind; and whoever saves a person, it is as if he has saved all mankind. Those are mutual interests.

The day after Pearl Harbor my grandfather signed up for duty; joined Patton's army, marched across Europe. It is not up in heaven. This cycle of suspicion and discord must end.

And John Kerry believes that in a dangerous world war must be an option sometimes, but it should never be the first option. It is on your lips and in your heart. Now is the time to finally keep the promise of affordable, accessible health care for every single American. Now is the time to help families with paid sick days and better family leave, because nobody in America should have to choose between keeping their jobs and caring for a sick child or ailing parent. This same story can be told by people from South Africa to South Asia; from Eastern Europe to Indonesia. The richness of religious diversity must be upheld - whether it is for Maronites in Lebanon or the Copts in Egypt.

And it's a testament to what we can achieve when good people with strong convictions stand up for their beliefs. But we shouldn't use our humility as an excuse for inaction. To the Joshua generation, these challenges seem momentous - and they are. Our government should work for us, not against us. So let me spell out exactly what that change would mean if I am President. The issues that I have described will not be easy to address.

I believe that we can give our middle class relief and provide working families with a road to opportunity. Not once in my conversations with him have I heard him talk about any ethnic group in derogatory terms, or treat whites with whom he interacted with anything but courtesy and respect. But they have helped shape the political landscape for at least a generation. And just as we keep our keep our promise to the next generation here at home, so must we keep America's promise abroad. I am a Christian, but my father came from a Kenyan family that includes generations of Muslims. To play a role in fulfilling Palestinian aspirations, and to unify the Palestinian people, Hamas must put an end to violence, recognize past agreements, and recognize Israel's right to exist.

I learned that my sins could be redeemed. That's the promise of America - the idea that we are responsible for ourselves, but that we also rise or fall as one nation; the fundamental belief that I am my brother's keeper; I am my sister's keeper. You understand that in this election, the greatest risk we can take is to try the same old politics with the same old players and expect a different result.

He's still speaking to our Catholic friends - who are holding up a consistent ethic of life that goes beyond abortion - one that includes a respect for life and dignity whether it's in Iraq, in poor neighborhoods, in African villages or even on death row. And yet, to wish away the resentments of white Americans, to label them as misguided or even racist, without recognizing they are grounded in legitimate concerns - this too widens the racial divide, and blocks the path to understanding.

And that it's not enough to just believe this - we have to do our part to make it a reality. In the young people who voted for the first time, and in those who got involved again after a very long time.

I believe that we have a righteous wind at our backs and that as we stand on the crossroads of history, we can make the right choices, and meet the challenges that face us. Why associate myself with Reverend Wright in the first place, they may ask? Why not join another church? And I confess that if all that I knew of Reverend Wright were the snippets of those sermons that have run in an endless loop on the television and You Tube, or if Trinity United Church of Christ conformed to the caricatures being peddled by some commentators, there is no doubt that I would react in much the same way This same story can be told by people from South Africa to South Asia; from Eastern Europe to Indonesia.

People are coming together around a simple truth - that we are all connected, that I am my brother's keeper; I am my sister's keeper. The fear and anger that it provoked was understandable, but in some cases, it led us to act contrary to our ideals.

But they have helped shape the political landscape for at least a generation. The situation in Afghanistan demonstrates America's goals, and our need to work together. The third source of tension is our shared interest in the rights and responsibilities of nations on nuclear weapons.

Go into any inner city neighborhood, and folks will tell you that government alone can't teach our kids to learn - they know that parents have to teach, that children can't achieve unless we raise their expectations and turn off the television sets and eradicate the slander that says a black youth with a book is acting white. Americans are ready to join with citizens and governments; community organizations, religious leaders, and businesses in Muslim communities around the world to help our people pursue a better life.

They imagined me going to the best schools in the land, even though they weren't rich, because in a generous America you don't have to be rich to achieve your potential. When I listen to another worker tell me that his factory has shut down, I remember all those men and women on the South Side of Chicago who I stood by and fought for two decades ago after the local steel plant closed. Our government should work for us, not against us. Indeed, none of us should tolerate these extremists. For peace to come, it is time for them - and all of us - to live up to our responsibilities.

And in all these ways, they helped make this country more decent and more just. Farmers and scholars; statesmen and patriots who had traveled across an ocean to escape tyranny and persecution finally made real their declaration of independence at a Philadelphia convention that lasted through the spring of 1787. This too is part of America's promise - the promise of a democracy where we can find the strength and grace to bridge divides and unite in common effort.

The church contains in full the kindness and cruelty, the fierce intelligence and the shocking ignorance, the struggles and successes, the love and yes, the bitterness and bias that make up the black experience in America. And just as we keep our keep our promise to the next generation here at home, so must we keep America's promise abroad. The fifth issue that we must address together is religious freedom.

If you have health care, my plan will lower your premiums. That commitment is at the core of the Treaty, and it must be kept for all who fully abide by it.

It was stained by this nation's original sin of slavery, a question that divided the colonies and brought the convention to a stalemate until the founders chose to allow the slave trade to continue for at least twenty more years, and to leave any final resolution to future generations. We can do that. So long as our relationship is defined by our differences, we will empower those who sow hatred rather than peace, and who promote conflict rather than the cooperation that can help all of our people achieve justice and prosperity. They have killed people of different faiths - more than any other, they have killed Muslims.

Nor is it beyond the sea. On one end of the spectrum, we've heard the implication that my candidacy is somehow an exercise in affirmative action; that it's based solely on the desire of wide-eyed liberals to purchase racial reconciliation on the cheap. The fact that so many people are surprised to hear that anger in some of Reverend Wright's sermons simply reminds us of the old truism that the most segregated hour in American life occurs on Sunday morning. Islamic culture has given us majestic arches and soaring spires; timeless poetry and cherished music; elegant calligraphy and places of peaceful contemplation. For we have learned from recent experience that when a financial system weakens in one country, prosperity is hurt everywhere. That is the world we seek.

We seek no military bases there. And just as it devastates Palestinian families, the continuing humanitarian crisis in Gaza does not serve Israel's security; neither does the continuing lack of opportunity in the West Bank.

They know those things. And so long as we're not doing everything in our personal and collective power to solve them, we know the conscience of our nation cannot rest. Throughout the first year of this campaign, against all predictions to the contrary, we saw how hungry the American people were for this message of unity. On one end of the spectrum, we've heard the implication that my candidacy is somehow an exercise in affirmative action; that it's based solely on the desire of wide-eyed liberals to purchase racial reconciliation on the cheap. Out of work? Tough luck. This country of ours has more wealth than any nation, but that's not what makes us rich.

Go into any inner city neighborhood, and folks will tell you that government alone can't teach our kids to learn - they know that parents have to teach, that children can't achieve unless we raise their expectations and turn off the television sets and eradicate the slander that says a black youth with a book is acting white. It was because of these newfound understandings that I was finally able to walk down the aisle of Trinity one day and affirm my Christian faith. We believe that everyone, everywhere should be loved, and given the chance to work, and raise a family. But what I will not do is suggest that the Senator takes his positions for political purposes. I've seen it in Washington, when we worked across party lines to open up government and hold lobbyists more accountable, to give better care for our veterans and keep nuclear weapons out of terrorist hands.

But I think they also sensed that a part of me remained removed and detached - that I was an observer in their midst. But I will also go through the federal budget, line by line, eliminating programs that no longer work and making the ones we do need work better and cost less - because we cannot meet twenty-first century challenges with a twentieth century bureaucracy. The same is true for the astonishing progress within Muslim-majority countries from Kuala Lumpur to Dubai. The Holy Koran tells us, "O mankind! We have created you male and a female; and we have made you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another."

He grew up herding goats, went to school in a tin-roof shack. More of you have lost your homes and even more are watching your home values plummet.

That we can have an idea and start our own business without paying a bribe. That's what compromise is about. Even for those blacks who did make it, questions of race, and racism, continue to define their worldview in fundamental ways. But if we do, I can tell you that in the next election, we'll be talking about some other distraction. Islam is not part of the problem in combating violent extremism - it is an important part of promoting peace. But this much is clear: governments that protect these rights are ultimately more stable, successful and secure.

He is a man who served his country as a U.S. Marine; who has studied and lectured at some of the finest universities and seminaries in the country, and who for over thirty years led a church that serves the community by doing God's work here on Earth - by housing the homeless, ministering to the needy, providing day care services and scholarships and prison ministries, and reaching out to those suffering from HIV/AIDS. For the African-American community, that path means embracing the burdens of our past without becoming victims of our past. That's why I stand here tonight. That won't keep America safe. I am grateful for your hospitality, and the hospitality of the people of Egypt. There will be many issues to discuss between our two countries, and we are willing to move forward without preconditions on the basis of mutual respect.

The day after Pearl Harbor my grandfather signed up for duty; joined Patton's army, marched across Europe. If you don't, you'll be able to get the same kind of coverage that members of Congress give themselves. They have affiliates in many countries and are trying to expand their reach. I saw it firsthand as a child in Indonesia, where devout Christians worshiped freely in an overwhelmingly Muslim country.

That's the promise we need to keep. Instead, it is that American spirit - that American promise - that pushes us forward even when the path is uncertain; that binds us together in spite of our differences; that makes us fix our eye not on what is seen, but what is unseen, that better place around the bend. I have made it clear to the Iraqi people that we pursue no bases, and no claim on their territory or resources. The Palestinian Authority must develop its capacity to govern, with institutions that serve the needs of its people.

If John McCain wants to follow George Bush with more tough talk and bad strategy, that is his choice - but it is not the change we need. As a young man, I worked in Chicago communities where many found dignity and peace in their Muslim faith.

And yet Al Qaeda chose to ruthlessly murder these people, claimed credit for the attack, and even now states their determination to kill on a massive scale. For more than sixty years they have endured the pain of dislocation.

And it means taking full responsibility for own lives - by demanding more from our fathers, and spending more time with our children, and reading to them, and teaching them that while they may face challenges and discrimination in their own lives, they must never succumb to despair or cynicism; they must always believe that they can write their own destiny. But if we do, I can tell you that in the next election, we'll be talking about some other distraction. And we will welcome all elected, peaceful governments - provided they govern with respect for all their people. Around the world, we can turn dialogue into Interfaith service, so bridges between peoples lead to action - whether it is combating malaria in Africa, or providing relief after a natural disaster. But it should be their choice.

Back home, my grandmother raised their baby and went to work on a bomber assembly line. Throughout the first year of this campaign, against all predictions to the contrary, we saw how hungry the American people were for this message of unity. She had been working to organize a mostly African-American community since the beginning of this campaign, and one day she was at a roundtable discussion where everyone went around telling their story and why they were there. This is a difficult responsibility to embrace.

It's not consistent with our traditions of justice and fairness. And if we can do that - if we can embrace a common destiny - then I believe we'll not just help bring about a more hopeful day in America, we'll not just be caring for our own souls, we'll be doing God's work here on Earth. And yet, to wish away the resentments of white Americans, to label them as misguided or even racist, without recognizing they are grounded in legitimate concerns - this too widens the racial divide, and blocks the path to understanding. Because if you don't have any fresh ideas, then you use stale tactics to scare the voters. This is a difficult responsibility to embrace. For many years, Iran has defined itself in part by its opposition to my country, and there is indeed a tumultuous history between us.

But at the end of the day, we cannot walk away - not for the sake of passing a bill, but so that we can finally address the real concerns of Americans and the persistent hopes of all those brothers and sisters who want nothing more than their own chance at our common dream. We can recognize the truth that's at the heart of the UCC: that the conversation is not over; that our roles are not defined; that through ancient texts and modern voices, God is still speaking, challenging us to change not just our own lives, but the world around us. These needs will be met only if we act boldly in the years ahead; and if we understand that the challenges we face are shared, and our failure to meet them will hurt us all.

And in time, I came to see faith as more than just a comfort to the weary or a hedge against death, but rather as an active, palpable agent in the world and in my own life. As imperfect as he may be, he has been like family to me.

They're ready to turn the page on the old politics and the old policies - whether it's the war in Iraq or the health care crisis we're in, or a school system that's leaving too many kids behind despite the slogans. It comes from Deuteronomy 30 when Moses talks to his followers about the challenges they'll find when they reach the Promised Land without him. But it also means binding our particular grievances - for better health care, and better schools, and better jobs - to the larger aspirations of all Americans - the white woman struggling to break the glass ceiling, the white man whose been laid off, the immigrant trying to feed his family. This country is more decent than one where a woman in Ohio, on the brink of retirement, finds herself one illness away from disaster after a lifetime of hard work. The situation in Afghanistan demonstrates America's goals, and our need to work together. America's strong bonds with Israel are well known.

More to do for the young woman in East St. In that time, he's said no to higher fuel-efficiency standards for cars, no to investments in renewable energy, no to renewable fuels. Now, many of these plans will cost money, which is why I've laid out how I'll pay for every dime - by closing corporate loopholes and tax havens that don't help America grow. Kennedy called our "intellectual and moral strength." Yes, government must lead on energy independence, but each of us must do our part to make our homes and businesses more efficient. You understand that in this election, the greatest risk we can take is to try the same old politics with the same old players and expect a different result.

Clearly, the past 50 years have not weakened your resolve as faithful witnesses of the gospel. More of you have cars you can't afford to drive, credit card bills you can't afford to pay, and tuition that's beyond your reach. I get it. "And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back." When a new flu infects one human being, all are at risk. The fourth issue that I will address is democracy.

I have made it clear to the Iraqi people that we pursue no bases, and no claim on their territory or resources. The fourth issue that I will address is democracy.

They must be pursued - and they must be defeated. Just as black anger often proved counterproductive, so have these white resentments distracted attention from the real culprits of the middle class squeeze - a corporate culture rife with inside dealing, questionable accounting practices, and short-term greed; a Washington dominated by lobbyists and special interests; economic policies that favor the few over the many. What is that promise? You can't truly stand up for Georgia when you've strained our oldest alliances. Although I believe that the Iraqi people are ultimately better off without the tyranny of Saddam Hussein, I also believe that events in Iraq have reminded America of the need to use diplomacy and build international consensus to resolve our problems whenever possible.

That history helps explain the wealth and income gap between black and white, and the concentrated pockets of poverty that persists in so many of today's urban and rural communities. So don't tell me that Democrats won't defend this country. No single nation should pick and choose which nations hold nuclear weapons. That is why the United States will partner with any Muslim-majority country to support expanded literacy for girls, and to help young women pursue employment through micro-financing that helps people live their dreams.

From his heroic service to Vietnam, to his years as a prosecutor and lieutenant governor, through two decades in the United States Senate, he has devoted himself to this country. For alongside our famous individualism, there's another ingredient in the American saga. A belief that there are better days ahead. It came about as a choice, and not an epiphany. It will require a renewed sense of responsibility from each of us to recover what John F. And while America in the past has focused on oil and gas in this part of the world, we now seek a broader engagement.

Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in church? Yes. Understanding this reality requires a reminder of how we arrived at this point. But she didn't. And finally they come to this elderly black man who's been sitting there quietly the entire time. I don't know what kind of lives John McCain thinks that celebrities lead, but this has been mine. And we will do so in partnership with Muslim communities which are also threatened.

The day after Pearl Harbor my grandfather signed up for duty; joined Patton's army, marched across Europe. Hope in the face of uncertainty. They held vigils across this country when four little girls were killed in the 16th Street Baptist Church. It is easier to start wars than to end them.

We worship an awesome God in the Blue States, and we don't like federal agents poking around in our libraries in the Red States. We can do that.

They have not served a Red America or a Blue America - they have served the United States of America. For part of what has been lost these past eight years can't just be measured by lost wages or bigger trade deficits. People in every country should be free to choose and live their faith based upon the persuasion of the mind, heart, and soul.

She's the one who put off buying a new car or a new dress for herself so that I could have a better life. This last point is important because there are some who advocate for democracy only when they are out of power; once in power, they are ruthless in suppressing the rights of others.

And right here in the UCC, we're hearing from God about what it means to be a welcoming church that holds on to our Christian witness. Because in the faces of those young veterans who come back from Iraq and Afghanistan, I see my grandfather, who signed up after Pearl Harbor, marched in Patton's Army, and was rewarded by a grateful nation with the chance to go to college on the GI Bill. The men and women who gathered there could've heard many things. But if we choose to be bound by the past, we will never move forward.

Go into the collar counties around Chicago, and people will tell you they don't want their tax money wasted, by a welfare agency or by the Pentagon. So one Sunday, I put on one of the few clean jackets I had, and went over to Trinity United Church of Christ on 95th Street on the South Side of Chicago. There was even a time when the Christian Coalition determined that its number one legislative priority was tax cuts for the rich. With profound gratitude and great humility, I accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States. The first nation to recognize my country was Morocco.

After the war, they studied on the G.I. And nothing will change. But the record's clear: John McCain has voted with George Bush ninety percent of the time.

And I found that I recognized in these folks a part of myself. So one Sunday, I put on one of the few clean jackets I had, and went over to Trinity United Church of Christ on 95th Street on the South Side of Chicago. And so long as we're not doing everything in our personal and collective power to solve them, we know the conscience of our nation cannot rest. The fact is that the comments that have been made and the issues that have surfaced over the last few weeks reflect the complexities of race in this country that we've never really worked through - a part of our union that we have yet to perfect. You see, we Democrats have a very different measure of what constitutes progress in this country.

I do so recognizing that change cannot happen overnight. Israel must also live up to its obligations to ensure that Palestinians can live, and work, and develop their society.

A common dream, born of two continents. This country is more generous than one where a man in Indiana has to pack up the equipment he's worked on for twenty years and watch it shipped off to China, and then chokes up as he explains how he felt like a failure when he went home to tell his family the news. That is why we plan to invest $1.5 billion each year over the next five years to partner with Pakistanis to build schools and hospitals, roads and businesses, and hundreds of millions to help those who have been displaced. In Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Indonesia, we have seen Muslim-majority countries elect a woman to lead. The issues that I have described will not be easy to address.

I believe that we can give our middle class relief and provide working families with a road to opportunity. And in time, I came to see faith as more than just a comfort to the weary or a hedge against death, but rather as an active, palpable agent in the world and in my own life. The times are too serious, the stakes are too high for this same partisan playbook. There will be many issues to discuss between our two countries, and we are willing to move forward without preconditions on the basis of mutual respect.

Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the Depression. Ours is a promise that says government cannot solve all our problems, but what it should do is that which we cannot do for ourselves - protect us from harm and provide every child a decent education; keep our water clean and our toys safe; invest in new schools and new roads and new science and technology. Progress in the daily lives of the Palestinian people must be part of a road to peace, and Israel must take concrete steps to enable such progress.

Today, America has a dual responsibility: to help Iraq forge a better future - and to leave Iraq to Iraqis. We see it in the history of Andalusia and Cordoba during the Inquisition. All these things must be done in partnership.

And if we can do that - if we can embrace a common destiny - then I believe we'll not just help bring about a more hopeful day in America, we'll not just be caring for our own souls, we'll be doing God's work here on Earth. Passions fly on immigration, but I don't know anyone who benefits when a mother is separated from her infant child or an employer undercuts American wages by hiring illegal workers. So America will defend itself respectful of the sovereignty of nations and the rule of law.

Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the Depression. And there's another issue we must confront as well. We cannot ignore that we have a right and a duty to protect our borders. Throughout the first year of this campaign, against all predictions to the contrary, we saw how hungry the American people were for this message of unity. Moreover, the sweeping change brought by modernity and globalization led many Muslims to view the West as hostile to the traditions of Islam. For human history has often been a record of nations and tribes subjugating one another to serve their own interests.

And yet, I know that, on this night, they look down on me with great pride. They must be pursued - and they must be defeated. I know, too, that Islam has always been a part of America's story. Israel must also live up to its obligations to ensure that Palestinians can live, and work, and develop their society. No single nation should pick and choose which nations hold nuclear weapons.

As William Faulkner once wrote, "The past isn't dead and buried. No single nation should pick and choose which nations hold nuclear weapons.

This country is more decent than one where a woman in Ohio, on the brink of retirement, finds herself one illness away from disaster after a lifetime of hard work. For part of what has been lost these past eight years can't just be measured by lost wages or bigger trade deficits. For decades, there has been a stalemate: two peoples with legitimate aspirations, each with a painful history that makes compromise elusive.

My father, who I didn't know, returned to Kenya when I was just two. They are anxious about their futures, and feel their dreams slipping away; in an era of stagnant wages and global competition, opportunity comes to be seen as a zero sum game, in which your dreams come at my expense. With profound gratitude and great humility, I accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States. The fourth issue that I will address is democracy.

A belief that we're all connected as one people. That's not what I'm talking about. We can pounce on some gaffe by a Hillary supporter as evidence that she's playing the race card, or we can speculate on whether white men will all flock to John McCain in the general election regardless of his policies. I am emphasizing such investments within my country. On economic development, we will create a new corps of business volunteers to partner with counterparts in Muslim-majority countries.

Out of many, one. I learned that my sins could be redeemed. But it also comes from my own American story. She's the one who taught me about hard work. If you have health care, my plan will lower your premiums. Because we reject the same thing that people of all faiths reject: the killing of innocent men, women, and children.

On November 4th, we must stand up and say: "Eight is enough." I love this country, and so do you, and so does John McCain. We cannot disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretense of liberalism. That is why we welcome efforts like Saudi Arabian King Abdullah's Interfaith dialogue and Turkey's leadership in the Alliance of Civilizations.

But it is a story that has seared into my genetic makeup the idea that this nation is more than the sum of its parts - that out of many, we are truly one. For some, nagging questions remain. You make a big election about small things. And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of the United States to fight against negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear. Words alone cannot meet the needs of our people. And we will also expand partnerships with Muslim communities to promote child and maternal health.

We can recognize the truth that's at the heart of the UCC: that the conversation is not over; that our roles are not defined; that through ancient texts and modern voices, God is still speaking, challenging us to change not just our own lives, but the world around us. Because we all have the capacity to do justice and show mercy; to treat others with dignity and respect; and to rise above what divides us and come together to meet those challenges we can't meet alone. He does not say that he was there because of Barack Obama. That is why we plan to invest $1.5 billion each year over the next five years to partner with Pakistanis to build schools and hospitals, roads and businesses, and hundreds of millions to help those who have been displaced. Unlike Afghanistan, Iraq was a war of choice that provoked strong differences in my country and around the world. This construction violates previous agreements and undermines efforts to achieve peace.

So it's 1985, and I'm in Chicago, and I'm working with these churches, and with lots of laypeople who are much older than I am. I have already condemned, in unequivocal terms, the statements of Reverend Wright that have caused such controversy. These are the policies I will pursue.

After the war, they studied on the G.I. We coach Little League in the Blue States and yes, we've got some gay friends in the Red States. The fact that so many people are surprised to hear that anger in some of Reverend Wright's sermons simply reminds us of the old truism that the most segregated hour in American life occurs on Sunday morning. Now let there be no doubt. I am also proud to carry with me the goodwill of the American people, and a greeting of peace from Muslim communities in my country: assalaamu alaykum.

Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the Depression. And I found that I recognized in these folks a part of myself. Anyway, Ashley finishes her story and then goes around the room and asks everyone else why they're supporting the campaign. Why else would he define middle-class as someone making under five million dollars a year? How else could he propose hundreds of billions in tax breaks for big corporations and oil companies but not one penny of tax relief to more than one hundred million Americans? How else could he offer a health care plan that would actually tax people's benefits, or an education plan that would do nothing to help families pay for college, or a plan that would privatize Social Security and gamble your retirement?

That anger is not always productive; indeed, all too often it distracts attention from solving real problems; it keeps us from squarely facing our own complicity in our condition, and prevents the African-American community from forging the alliances it needs to bring about real change. As a young man, I worked in Chicago communities where many found dignity and peace in their Muslim faith.

And I've found that no matter where I am, or who I'm talking to, there's a common theme that emerges. The profound mistake of Reverend Wright's sermons is not that he spoke about racism in our society.

They want a sense of purpose, a narrative arc to their lives. The children of America are not those kids, they are our kids, and we will not let them fall behind in a 21st century economy. And I believe that America holds within her the truth that regardless of race, religion, or station in life, all of us share common aspirations - to live in peace and security; to get an education and to work with dignity; to love our families, our communities, and our God. So whatever we think of the past, we must not be prisoners of it.

These enemies must be found. These are not whiners. That promise is our greatest inheritance. This bond is unbreakable.

And today, we import triple the amount of oil as the day that Senator McCain took office. But we must also admit that programs alone can't replace parents; that government can't turn off the television and make a child do her homework; that fathers must take more responsibility for providing the love and guidance their children need. Let me also address the issue of Iraq.

There are patriots who opposed the war in Iraq and there are patriots who supported the war in Iraq. They could've been told to succumb to the fear and frustration of so many dreams deferred. All of us share this world for but a brief moment in time.

For the African-American community, that path means embracing the burdens of our past without becoming victims of our past. We are more compassionate than a government that lets veterans sleep on our streets and families slide into poverty; that sits on its hands while a major American city drowns before our eyes. Now let there be no doubt. And although she can no longer travel, I know that she's watching tonight, and that tonight is her night as well.

And if we can do that - if we can embrace a common destiny - then I believe we'll not just help bring about a more hopeful day in America, we'll not just be caring for our own souls, we'll be doing God's work here on Earth. And despite the costs involved, America's commitment will not weaken.

But my journey is part of a larger journey - one shared by all who've ever sought to apply the values of their faith to our society. We have the most powerful military on Earth, but that's not what makes us strong. Together, you represent the harmony between tradition and progress. Many wait in refugee camps in the West Bank, Gaza, and neighboring lands for a life of peace and security that they have never been able to lead. But this much is clear: governments that protect these rights are ultimately more stable, successful and secure.

It got hijacked. Because it's not who we are. But I have asserted a firm conviction - a conviction rooted in my faith in God and my faith in the American people - that working together we can move beyond some of our old racial wounds, and that in fact we have no choice is we are to continue on the path of a more perfect union. It requires all Americans to realize that your dreams do not have to come at the expense of my dreams; that investing in the health, welfare, and education of black and brown and white children will ultimately help all of America prosper. He said that the fundamentals of the economy are strong. It's a story with a simple truth: that violence is a dead end.

But what my former pastor too often failed to understand is that embarking on a program of self-help also requires a belief that society can change. Now Ashley might have made a different choice. And as someone who watched my mother argue with insurance companies while she lay in bed dying of cancer, I will make certain those companies stop discriminating against those who are sick and need care the most. They could've been told to succumb to the fear and frustration of so many dreams deferred. That does not mean we should ignore sources of tension.

There are patriots who opposed the war in Iraq and there are patriots who supported the war in Iraq. The United States has been one of the greatest sources of progress that the world has ever known. Trade can bring new wealth and opportunities, but also huge disruptions and changing communities.

I was raised with the help of a white grandfather who survived a Depression to serve in Patton's Army during World War II and a white grandmother who worked on a bomber assembly line at Fort Leavenworth while he was overseas. Because one of the things that we have to change in our politics is the idea that people cannot disagree without challenging each other's character and patriotism. It is based upon cultural and historical ties, and the recognition that the aspiration for a Jewish homeland is rooted in a tragic history that cannot be denied.

They are full of dancing, clapping, screaming and shouting that may seem jarring to the untrained ear. Tell that to the military families who shoulder their burdens silently as they watch their loved ones leave for their third or fourth or fifth tour of duty. Now, I don't believe that Senator McCain doesn't care what's going on in the lives of Americans. And despite the costs involved, America's commitment will not weaken. And we will welcome all elected, peaceful governments - provided they govern with respect for all their people.

Even for those blacks who did make it, questions of race, and racism, continue to define their worldview in fundamental ways. I don't fit the typical pedigree, and I haven't spent my career in the halls of Washington.

A belief in things not seen. Not once in my conversations with him have I heard him talk about any ethnic group in derogatory terms, or treat whites with whom he interacted with anything but courtesy and respect. These are the Americans that I know.

But race is an issue that I believe this nation cannot afford to ignore right now. It is not enough to give health care to the sick, or jobs to the jobless, or education to our children. Passions fly on immigration, but I don't know anyone who benefits when a mother is separated from her infant child or an employer undercuts American wages by hiring illegal workers. They claim that our insistence on something larger, something firmer and more honest in our public life is just a Trojan Horse for higher taxes and the abandonment of traditional values. And fault lines must be closed among Muslims as well, as the divisions between Sunni and Shia have led to tragic violence, particularly in Iraq.

God is still speaking. I was raised with the help of a white grandfather who survived a Depression to serve in Patton's Army during World War II and a white grandmother who worked on a bomber assembly line at Fort Leavenworth while he was overseas. The second major source of tension that we need to discuss is the situation between Israelis, Palestinians and the Arab world. But it was not violence that won full and equal rights.

Like other black churches, Trinity's services are full of raucous laughter and sometimes bawdy humor. This is the reality in which Reverend Wright and other African-Americans of his generation grew up. More of you have cars you can't afford to drive, credit card bills you can't afford to pay, and tuition that's beyond your reach. Tell that to the military families who shoulder their burdens silently as they watch their loved ones leave for their third or fourth or fifth tour of duty. Indeed, we can recall the words of Thomas Jefferson, who said: "I hope that our wisdom will grow with our power, and teach us that the less we use our power the greater it will be." But it is clear to all concerned that when it comes to nuclear weapons, we have reached a decisive point.

But they sense, deep in their bones, that with just a slight change in priorities, we can make sure that every child in America has a decent shot at life, and that the doors of opportunity remain open to all. Unlike John McCain, I will stop giving tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas, and I will start giving them to companies that create good jobs right here in America. No single nation should pick and choose which nations hold nuclear weapons. All of us share this world for but a brief moment in time.

Even for those blacks who did make it, questions of race, and racism, continue to define their worldview in fundamental ways. Now is the time to finally keep the promise of affordable, accessible health care for every single American. For we have learned from recent experience that when a financial system weakens in one country, prosperity is hurt everywhere.

Thank you, and God bless America.